# How to Build and Manage Teams - Vinod Khosla

Anu Hariharan: Today we have Vinod Khosla, founder of Khosla Ventures and former founder of Sun Microsystems.  He has advised a lot of start-ups in Silicon Valley.

I'm going to interview Vinod  today, and we're going to talk about how to build and manage teams. Thank you,  Vinod for taking the time. You've talked a lot about company building and hiring.

I  know that you've often said that a company becomes the people it hires not the  plan it makes. Can you elaborate on what you mean by that, and especially for  founders who are just beginning to start a company. What should they focus on in  hiring?
Vinod Khosla: Yeah, that's one of my favorite topics. Many, many founders, and when you start you  know very little about what you're doing.

If you did know enough, you wouldn't start  the company.

If you were really sensible and pragmatic, you wouldn't start companies.

I'm an  entrepreneurship zealot self-described.

I'm a real fan of people trying companies, and trying to build  things, especially when you're younger when you can afford to take the risks. There's no  reason to go work for somebody else in my book, and I never did. What  I find is people have plans but it is very, very rare for a company  to achieve that plan. The way to think about where you're starting is a collection  of ideas in a relatively rich space that you find you can be passionate about.  That's the way to think about a plan.

I have a separate talk on flexi  planning, which is don't plan, just plan to plan. The critical part of that is  the team you build ends up making all day to day decisions about where you're  going to end up. Whether to higher the next person from this area or that  area or with that strength or some other strength, or to pick path A or  B, is very, very critical to where a company ends up. There's a huge path  dependence, and the path depends so much on the people you hire. You're starting plan  becomes much less relevant than the people you higher initially, especially the first 10 people.  Those 10 people will then go on to hire the next 50, and they will  then hire the last 100. You can fire the original team, and it's gene DNA  stays in the company. That's why it's so important, and why the people you hire  determine the company becomes. We can come back later and talk about where I see  mistakes made around functional hiring. People always ask me, and I say this gets treated  a lot, there's a huge difference between a zero million dollar company, and a zero  billion dollar company. The difference is attitude and ambition and mostly the kind of team  you build, which will reinforce certain directions for you especially who else you end up  hiring.

It's far more critical than people believe, and it's really hard to hire those  skills later.

Anu Hariharan: Yeah, and I think you've touched upon the first 10 hires being so important, and  especially defining pretty much even the culture or the belief system that you would call  for the company. A lot of founders here have like a one or two member  teams. How should they think about who should be those first few hires, and how  do they go about finding those candidates? I know you also have a strong view  about how equity should be split for the first 10 employees versus and next 30,  so would love to hear how should a founder think about that?
Vinod Khosla: Many start-ups are very tactical and they should be.

In doing the tactics, you can  sometimes forget what the big vision is. You may even exclude the big vision.

I  was talking to a company fairly recently in our portfolio that hired a bunch of  people to do particular tasks that needed doing. There was a new hire, potentially a  big hire, very attractive person to have join the team.

I asked the founder, "Who's  going to interview?" He told me who would interview, this founder.

I said, "If I  was a really great candidate, and these three people interviewed me first, I'd drop out  of the recruiting process." I said, "You know what? Why don't I be the first  interviewer? That can be a real waste of my time because I want him to  grab the big vision first and not just be interviewed. Let me sell him on  the big idea, and why he can be a part of honing it." The best  people almost can't be interviewed. They have to be sold and evaluated. Evaluation's important, but  evaluation and interviewing are different things in my mind. Once you hired the first five,  and they interview other people, you might actually exclude the best candidates. That's very, very  tricky for a founder. At the same time sometimes you can't afford the big name,  so you don't have enough to attract them. Those are very tricky times. That's why  I think whether you're zero million dollar company or zero billion dollar company sort of  gets set by the time you're 15 or 20 people. There's people who've done it  very poorly.

I won't give you examples, but people like Stripe, Patrick did it amazingly  great job of his early hires, and has continued to do that. You can completely  change the trajectory of a company by that hiring and how big you'll become.

Anu Hariharan: What are some of the things that you think Patrick at Stripe or some of  these successful founders have done in the first year.

Is it that they meet candidates  in other roles? Because the founder often also doesn't know a lot of the other  roles, or doesn't have domain knowledge about the roles that they are looking to hire.

Vinod Khosla: Let's talk about each of those separately because they're quite distinct things. First, I think  of company-building as going after Mount Everest, but nobody got to Mount Everest without getting  to base camp first. Here's the misstep. You can't get to Everest without basecamp. Many  people forget that basecamp has to lead to Everest, so they set up basecamp where  it doesn't help reduce the risk to Everest. Building a company you never shoot for  the big enchilada in one step. You go after basecamp one, then basecamp two.

It's  a very good analogy. However, especially with bad investors, and I have a lot of  beefs about investors. They want revenue, or they want break even, or they want management,  all the things that can lead to setting up here that then excludes the possibility  that you learn more about how to get to basecamp two and three. You are  out in some other local minima or maxima. That's really dangerous early on, too.

In  fact, one of the beefs I was just talking to somebody in the YC class,  and talking about this.

I said, "This is one of my pieces of advice to  YC.

If you get too tactical and forget the strategic, you'll set up basecamp in  the wrong place." You want to decide which is the rich space you're going to  go after with the technology, in this case, starting with great technology, before you start  doing all the tactical stuff. There's this uncomfortable balance between tactics and strategy.

I say  be obstinate about your vision, be flexible about your tactics. Another way I like to  say it is think big but act small. These are really difficult things to navigate,  much easier said than done. Back to this issue, let me talk about a process  I call gene pool engineering.

If you're going after a space, assuming you pick the  right space, or the one you're passionate about.

It doesn't even have to be right  for others, right for you. The first thing I suggest people do is say all  the ways in which you can fail. Think about it. You want to identify the  key risks in whatever you're trying to do. Then you hire for those risks. Always  say to people, find your top five risks. For each of those risks, say risk  one, who are the companies that have dealt with that risk, or where does the  expertise on that risk lie? Make a list of three to five companies, and by  the way this document, you'll get a link called gene pool engineering. That's on our  website that I wrote just for this purpose.

If you've identified the five companies that  have dealt with that risk, then you have at least the places that can reduce  your risk. Within each company identify three names. Now you have 15 names for the  risk number one.

If you do that for your top five risks, you essentially have  a library of names that will help you reduce the risk in your business. That's  risk oriented management. Start-ups after you decide what space you're going after is all about  risk management. There's lots of risk trade offs. Every time you hire somebody increase your  burn, you're taking on financial risk, but you're reducing some other risk, maybe it's product  risk, or development risk, or feature risk.

It's a series of trade offs. That's how  start-ups should think about what they're trying to do. This is a process I call  gene poll engineering, where you engineer 15 names for each of your major risks, and  then go after all of them, and hopefully hire one or two of the 15.  You've then engineered the gene pool of your company for the risks that are you  in the plan you're going to pursue.

It's way more precise than the platitude of  let's hire great people.

I find that really disturbing because I've never actually had a  start-up come in to me and say they're only hiring bad people. Never quite happens.  How do you make platitudes into something concrete and actionable? That's a big thing with  me. The second part of that is the reality that students seldom pursue the original  plan they started with. You also have to hire not only for the risks you  know, but all the other things that you might pivot to, change to, adapt to,  iterate to. Building a business plan in a new area is a series of iterations.  Suddenly this risk requirement goes in parallel with this other requirement, which I call smart  adaptation. You adapt very quickly to whatever the market is teaching you, and is particularly  good at that. Teaching you how to iterate quickly and learn. Essentially, very similar to  what I call this flexi-planning process where you iterate your way to a plan instead  of saying this is my plan.

I always worry when people make plans seven years  out, and give me forecast because it tells me they don't have a clue what  they don't know. That is one of the great benefits of YC from my point  of view, this iterative approach. Other people call it MVP or there's other names for  this iterative approach.

I call it flexi-planning. The team you build in addition to this  risk approach also has to be open to new ideas, grab new ideas, ask a  lot of questions, adapt quickly, brainstorm with others constructively so you build on each other  ideas. These are parallel set of requirements around hiring that are very hard to quantify.  They're also full of danger for the following reason. Sometimes people don't hire for this,  that's a danger, and other times, and one of the biggest risks if you decide  you want to be aggressive about hiring is going after names or titles or other  things. Big names and titles in big companies are really, really dangerous and misleading for  start-ups. My biggest mistakes early on in my career was getting too impressed with somebody's  title at IBM or some big company. Now I take the view that if somebody's  been at a big company for 10 or 15 years, if they've been at Cisco  for 10 years, they can't work effectively in a start-up until they get re-brainwashed by  failing once or twice in a start-up. Then it will work. Hiring for this other  stuff and not falling into the trap of just big names is very important. Also  depends upon your domain.

If the domain your start-up is in is radically different ...  Let me put it differently. Some domains need a lot of expertise.

If you're doing  a blood test like , you can drop out of school and start that, but  eventually it's a serious physics and chemistry problem, and you have to get that talent  on board.

If you're doing something like Stripe did, it was very simple problem. You  don't need three PhDs.

If you're going to solve health care with AI, you're going  to need expertise.

It depends on the domain. You don't always need the gurus.

It  depends on your problem. You don't always need the big names. Another very counter intuitive  thing, we were recruiting for a CEO for our company AliveCor. They essentially do cardiac  care.

I insisted I would not talk to any candidate who had ever worked in  health care, and that's because health care executives tend to apply old rules because their  domain hasn't changed very much. People are so used to applying old us, and applying  good process, as opposed to inventing this new future, this new path. That's very dangerous.  We should come back and talk about how founders should figure all this out when  they don't have a clue what these other functions are. That's really dangerous, and so  that's a big, big caution.

It's seldom that a person out of a domain can  innovate in a domain, and if you're a young founder, and you hire somebody with  deep experience in a domain, it is logical as human beings to defer more to  their knowledge, and that is a real problem.

It's important to understand the problems they  raise not the solutions they propose.

If you take that, you'll keep doing what traditional  people in that industry have done. This is why CEO hired into companies don't work  very well, and why founder vision becomes so important and so critical.

I'm wandering all  over the place, but correct me.

Anu Hariharan: Before we touch on the functional hiring, and how to look for domain knowledge, I  wanted to touch upon one other element that you talked about in the gene pool  hiring paper, which is about diversity. Not in the literal sense, but you talked about  there are different dimensions of diversity that are important as you're trying to figure out  candidates. Can you elaborate on what are the different dimensions of diversity a start-up should  really focus on, and why is it important to do that early on?
Vinod Khosla: Yeah, so if you buy the thesis that most of what you end up executing  on isn't part of your plans today, then the single most important thing becomes people  who can help you evolve your plan. The more diverse the set of people, and  I don't mean diverse ethnically, I mean backgrounds, places they've worked, areas they know, age,  level of experience, there's some really great things about experience. You want experience, but you  don't want experience to guide you into doing what others have already done in that  same business and not innovate. That is the result of too much experience. Mixing the  right experience where you can identify the problems with first principles thinking from fresh new  ideas, people who've never worked in the domain, or people who actually are just fresh  graduates, and have no idea, but can ask fundamental questions, those are the best kind  of founders. Put it differently, in big companies, you need people with good process.

In  start-ups you need people with good iteration and good adaptation. Those are very, very, different  skills because in start-ups you invent 90% of stuff.

In big companies, 90% of what  you do this year will be what was done last year. There's very little innovation.  Takes a different kind of person. Both valuable, in fact, every start-up if they're successful,  they'll need some process people later, but process people early in a start-up can be  a disaster. Too good a manager is a bad thing for early start-upstairs, but at  some point you really need to add that. That's what I mean by diversity.

If  you have a bunch of PhDs, how many are experienced PhDs, how many are fresh?  How many are from within your area, and how many are from completely outside the  area. Every dimension of diversity will help because they'll bring a different point of view.  As long as they have this ability to think from first principles not saying, "This  is done this way because we did it this way before." I also should probably  say this feels way more complex. This is why I've written about it extensively in  two articles. One's called the Art and Science of Hiring. You'll get a link to  that.

It's on our website too. One's called Gene Pool Engineering. There's a third one  I actually wrote when Peter Boyd joined us, which talked about what boards should and  shouldn't do. Boards will do more damage to start-ups than anything else I know. That's  why I don't go to board meetings anymore. Applying tradition just really hurts. When you're  looking for an investor, it's not money, it's help in building this team that's way  more important. Way, way more important to where you'll get to than anything around the  amount of money raised, or the valuation, or other things. We should come back and  talk about founder equity also.

I spend a third of my time maybe, more time  on recruiting for our companies than any other single thing I do because of all  the things I've talked about.

In fact, at start-up Grind, the interviewer asked me, he  said, Chamat was saying that you couldn't possibly spend that much time interviewing.

I said,  "That's because he just fundamentally has a different belief system than me." I do, and  it's most of what I do.

I'll go to 100 LinkedIn resumes by myself on  a weekend if I'm looking for a critical hire for a company. A few people  can make or break a company.

Anu Hariharan: Yeah, and I think you've talked about this too, which would be helpful here. The  CEO's job initially is to be the chief recruiting officer. Can you elaborate on what  is the founder's role, and how should they be thinking. Especially because we see a  lot of start-ups where they say, "Oh, I'm looking for VP of sales," and they  write down all the skills, but then they forget about all the elements needed for  what it takes to lead in a start-up.

Vinod Khosla: Yeah, so let's come back to this notion of functional hiring. Let me talk about  what founders need to do. A founder's role, and when I was a founder I  spent probably 40% of my time recruiting. You're much better off hiring the people who  can code than coding-
Anu Hariharan: Was it throughout the life of the start-up, or did it change?
Vinod Khosla: Both in the beginning and throughout the life of the start-up.

I think it's true  of very early, mid stage, and later stage companies, and really good founders do most  of that because if you can hire the people, you should generally be able to  hire the people who can do any given job better than you can.

I tell  founders about their role, if there's any job you can hire for, modular money, which  we can talk about, you should hire for that role so you don't have to  spend time. Founders have some unique characteristics. They have this entrepreneurial spirit, this first principle  thinking, this attitude says, "Yes, done this way but why?" This why, and I recommend  a back by Simon Sinek called Start With Why.

It's a really good book about  questioning everything, and yet staying true to your vision even if it's not precise.

If  you're doing something radically new, it's going to be ambiguous, and very, very few normal  people are comfortable with that ambiguity. Let's charge ahead in this direction even though we  don't know precisely what the business model is, or why, or what will take. That  leadership is a founder's role. That's something it's almost impossible to hire for.

If you  hire senior executive from another company, there's zero chance you'll have that. They can systematize  what you are doing, and get much more boost to your efforts, but not without  your vision. That's a founder's role.

I call it leadership.

It's a belief system in  the face of ambiguity.

It's figuring it out kind of attitude, assembling a diverse team.  I was very lucky as a young founder.

I loved awesome people.

I didn't know  why we hired many of the people, but if you look at it the first  15 people we hired at Sun probably started more than 10 companies worth a billion  dollars later one. We hired Carol Bartz who became CEO of Yahoo. We hired Eric  Schmidt who became CEO of Google. We hired all these. We hired Bill Joy.

In  fact, Bill Joy became a founder six months after we started. We should come back  to it.

I so badly wanted him. We made him founder retroactively. Anything is okay  in this game of assembling great talent.

I loved learning from great people, so we  hired great people.

In retrospect, that was why we were successful, and I started believing  company becomes the people you hire. By the way, Andy Bechtolmsheim was a student in  Margaret Jacks Hall, not far from here, where the computer science department used to be.  He had licensed his technology to six companies. The only one that succeeded with it  is us, and we started two years after some of the other companies had licensed  the technology, but we got all the people.

I hounded Andy until he dropped his  PhD to join me.

I hounded Bill Joy until he dropped his PhD to join  us. Both of them dropped their PhDs when they thought they were six months from  finishing. Selling is also a founder's job, and it's gut-wrenching because you don't know you're  going to be successful, and you're trying to convince somebody to drop their PhD.

It's  gut-wrenching. Hiring is gut-wrenching. Or you're convincing them to drop a comfortable job at Google  and join you, so many stories. Anyway, back to what were we talking about.

Anu Hariharan: Yeah, no, I think just to ...

I know before you have said in one  of the points that when it comes to selling for hiring, no means maybe, and  then maybe means yes.

Vinod Khosla: Yeah, I have my favorite. When a candidate says no I convince them it's a  maybe. Then I'll spend enough time. Once they say maybe, then my job is to  say, maybe is a yes. Always say a no is a maybe, and a maybe  is a yes.

It doesn't matter if you fail. Occasionally when you succeed it's what  ... People give up on recruiting way too early and way too quickly.

I just  hound people.

Anu Hariharan: I wanted to touch upon founders equity because I know you brought that up twice.  How should, especially when you're trying to attract ... You want to build a great  team, and a great team is a magnet for other people to join the company.  How should founders think about equity especially in the early hires?
Vinod Khosla: Yeah, I find by and large, and there are exceptions, plenty of them, founders keep  too much equity for themselves. They don't realize the following fact. Anybody they hire who's  exceptional will a year later figure out they want to start their own company, unless  they're a founder. You self-select for okay people, good people, not awesome people. My son's  starting a company, actually two companies, right now. He graduated last June from Stanford.

I  convinced him that him and his co-founder should just take 15% each. Leave 15% for  a third founder, another 15% for three junior founders. Then a 20% pool after that.  They had this humongous pool. Because I fundamentally believe a company becomes the people it  hires I said, "You'll be able to hire great people." For one of his companies,  and I think this is public, if it's not, stop recording. He just hired for  one of his companies the VP of engineering of Quora. Why would that person join  a fresh graduate? Because, one, he helped define a fairly interesting large vision, but two  he had this huge pool. He's been talking to people who would take that kind  of thing, any of whom could start their own company. Let me invert it and  say when a team comes in to present to me, one of the questions I  ask mys in judging how good a team is, do they have expertise in all  the areas they need expertise, but the single most important question I ask. On this  team, if some of these people left and started a company, would I want to  invest in that company? If somebody has two people like that on their team, zero  chance I won't want to invest.

Independent of whether I like the plan or not  because they're collecting great talent.

If I could have great talent or a great plan,  I'd rather have great talent and a founder who loves great talent.

It's a great  way to judge a start-up is what kind of people do they hire? I told  Sam in the last YC batch there was two companies we made an offer to  if they hired in a critical area. They're both AI start-ups.

If they left equal  co-founder equity for an AI start-up.

I said, "I'll write you a check at the  evaluation you want, if you do that.

If not, then we don't want to invest."  One of them took that offer, and the other one didn't, which is okay.

I  really, religiously, believe this idea. You get a Bill Joy or Andy ... They weren't  experienced. They were graduates, but they made the whole company. Eric Schmidt wanted to come  work for them. By the time we had first 10 people, we were getting so  many resumes. Everybody wanted to join us because we had so many awesome people other  than ... Me and McNealy were just fresh business school graduates, we didn't count.

I  always say, and I keep telling my son, "Hire some magnets." I tell him, "Nobody's  going to come join you just to work with you." Think about who you could  get that everybody wants to work with. That's how you'll hire the numbers 10 through  30 or 50. A rough rule of thumb I use on equity, I think Sam  has said at least 10% of the company should be reserved for the first 10  hires.

I actually think that numbers too low.

I flip it around and say when  a company's 50 the founders should have a third of the common. Their direct reports  should have, so if there's five or six direct reports, should have a third of  the common, and everybody else the engineers, the worker bees, should have a third of  the common.

If you do that, people don't leave. People stay with you. Now, Sam  has a good blog post on how to attract a team. One of those is  growth. Growth is always a metric, but you can't always close that. When things get  tough, when you run into trouble, why will people stay? They'll stay because they believe  in your value system. What are you going after, the reason you're defining? Define an  interesting, ambitious enough vision.

If your vision is just to make money, the people at  the first dip will say, "Oh, I joined to make money. Doesn't look like it."  They'll leave. They won't stick with it. The single biggest reason people stick with a  company is because they have people around them who are really awesome that they can  learn from, who are better than them, everybody should feel that way. That's a great  culture to set up, and every time I've seen that done, it's turned out really  well. The gene pool engineering article I mentioned, I put together in 1995 when we  were starting Juniper. Nobody had ever challenged Cisco, and nobody wanted to challenge Cisco, and  no customer in the world wanted to buy TCP IP routers, none for the public  network.

It sounds incredulous, but go look up articles from 1995. Not a single carrier,  AT&T, which as Pack Bell, what is now Verizon, all said they would never introduce  TCP IP in the public network. We defined this large vision. We built this process  of engineering the gene pool of the company, and everybody got excited about changing the  course of their internet, from what was ATM, and nobody remembers this. A very, very  senior executive told me when I was looking at investing in this, they would never  use TCP IP. This is what telecom carriers do, this is how traditional wisdom goes,  but you need this awesome team to change that. Pradeep Sindhu, who's was one of  the great founders I run into, not only built a great company, but it actually  changed the trajectory of the protocols in the internet in my view. We would have  ended up with something else. Most likely, ATM if all the carriers had their way.  Every single carrier from Deutsche Telekom in Europe to AT&T here had decided they would  go with ATM not TCP IP. So, great missions, great people to work with, all  that is why you want people in your team.

Anu Hariharan: Got it.

I want to touch upon functional hiring because I think it is a  component of building a great team as well, and too often founders tend to prioritize  a lot on skills for a product level, versus really figuring out the complete package  or the fit of the person. Can you talk about how should a founder think  about hiring?
Vinod Khosla: Yeah, so let me answer that question, but later if you're a founder, you're a  technologist, or have a technical breakthrough, or a big idea, and you start a company,  and you need a VP of marketing or you need a CFO. We should come  back to the question, and I covered this in my art of hiring, of how  you judge somebody's a good VP of marketing or a good CFO because the first  thing you have to realize is you're not qualified to judge. Knowing what you don't  know is critical and one of the most important things a founder does is decide  whose judgment to trust on what topic, and not just ask their friend because they  may not be qualified.

In fact, founder's just hired their friends instead of gene pool  engineering a start-up, and that's wasting slots and talent too. Let me go back to  functional hiring. We can come back to this, otherwise I cover it fairly extensively in  my paper on hiring, how you interview population, how you judge them.

If you need  a VP of engineering, you can look at somebody who has managed an engineering project.  If you're a founder, especially an inexperienced founder with a big breakthrough idea in a  new space that nobody knows. You clearly need to build an engineering team and execute  on that. What you need more than that? Somebody who's going to go help you  evaluate all the pivots and changes in iterations in your plan. Let's say you hire  a VP of engineering who's good at that, a VP of marketing who is good  at marketing, a VP of sales good at sales, and a CFO, and they do  their job well, who's going to help you figure out what path to take? I  always say you need functions, but way more important while hiring those functional people, you're  getting something else whether you recognize it or not. You're getting somebody who is going  to participate in all the more critical decisions, even more critical than having engineering run  smoothly, which is which path should we take. Ask the following question. When I hire  a VP of engineering, how will it make my VP of marketing better? That's by  asking fundamental first principles questions. Elon Musk's book is worth reading because he knew so  little about building cars or about launching rockets. He made so many screwy mistakes that  could have been avoided, but if he had had all that experience and knowledge, he  wouldn't even have attempted what he did.

I'd rather have somebody like Elon Musk who  just fundamentally asks a lot of questions. Why are we doing it this way? Not  that we've done it this way for 50 years at GM. Remember, GM spent more  money, more time, and started earlier trying to an electric vehicle called the EV1. Elon  with no experience by asking a lot of questions, and adapting rapidly as he screwed  up, he got to a place where Tesla is a much more interesting company than  GM today. When you look for that functional hire, realize you're also getting this other  thing, which is much more important. Look for how they think, how fast they change,  how much they become defensive when you challenge an idea versus saying, "Oh, why didn't  I think of that?" Or be much more brainstorm oriented. This horizontal hiring that you  get while doing functional, vertical hiring is much more important in a much more important  dimension, and by the way, most VCs don't look for it because they've not go  through building companies themselves. They give you bad advice. The number of times they say,  "Go get somebody with distribution channel expertise." I'd rather have somebody figured it out, and  not have a source inertia in this fluid, dynamic, evolving, thinking method in a company.  When you are hiring, more than anything, you are hiring a brain trusts, and they  happen to also have skills in doing functional jobs, but the brain trust is more  important than the functional job, and evaluating them is very tricky.

It's tricky because partly  you don't know how to evaluate somebody outside of your area of competence. Two, you  call a VP of marketing at Cisco, I don't mean to pick on Cisco, but  it's a good company to pick on, they will look at marketing very, very different  than what a start-up needs. They'll give you the wrong advice. Going through, and this  is where the tricky part comes, not being overly swayed by titles or positions, understanding  why people did certain things, and how thoughtful were they about it. What did they  do that wasn't usual? Is very hard.

It's also tricky to go back to this  question of how you evaluate people. Most experienced interviewees know how to give you the  right answers. They're going to fool you. You ask somebody, what did you do here?  They'll retroactively look at what was great about the strategy, and say, "I did this."  I've actually had people pitch me on why they did Sun's marketing strategy. Being very,  very indirect, kind of a list of questions in my paper on hiring, the way  you get to the bottom. Give you one example.

I'll ask the same thing three  different ways.

I'll say at the beginning, "What do love doing? What are you good  at?" Somebody say something. Then while talking later about a job I say, "What did  you do really well there?" If those two don't coincide, if somebody's making it up,  they won't.

I'll ask that question three different ways. Third time I might ask, "If  you were to join this company, what would you think your strength would be?" I've  asked this question three different ways in three different contexts. People who are making it  up will make up different answers. People who fundamentally have the truth will give the  right answer. Then I might at the end of the interview ask, "What would your  boss say about you?" Now I've asked the same question a fourth time.

If they  say something, then I'll say, "Hey can I get your last performance review that your  boss did?" If they say no, I know they don't want to share their performance.  I have a 100 tricks like this I use. You can never rely on the  direct answer you get in interviewing somebody.

It's the trickiest thing. Then it's good to  get together with each other and see what each person looked at. One other danger  in hiring, I find if I'm rushed today, and I'm interviewing somebody, I'll evaluate them  differently than if I'm doing it over coffee on a Saturday morning. Other thing to  keep in mind, depending upon how your day went, or what mindset you're in, how  you evaluate people changes. For critical positions, I'll interview the same person three times at  three different days just so I'm not biasing myself because humans including yourself and myself  are really biased. There's so many pitfalls. This is why doing a start-up is so  hard. Anyway, I'll let you ask more questions. Sorry, I keep rambling.

I could go  on for six hours.

Anu Hariharan: I'll ask one more question, and then I'm going to open it up for Q  and A.

I know in that paper you have a lot of questions, and we  will circulate that for interviews, but you also make the point even if you follow  all those processes mistakes are inevitable. At least one third of the time, the hires  don't work out. What in your view is the most common reason why the hires  don't work out, and how should a founder handle that because sometimes start-ups wait too  long to fix it.

Vinod Khosla: Look, if somebody wants a job, in the interview their job is to fool you.  Question is are they better at fooling you, or are you better at getting behind  the words? I find after hiring many, many people, and I probably do hundreds of  interviews every year, I have a success rate of about 65%.

I'm wrong, and I  find most people with less experience are wrong more often because usually if you're a  young founder the people you are interviewing are more experienced than you at fooling you.  It is a game. We then talk about culture and other things. There's those reasons  why candidates fail, but there's really not be able to get behind the scenes and  dig deep. One, you ought to plan on that happening.

I always tell my teams,  "If you want four people on your team, hire six. Even make up a title  you don't need." Yeah, so I always over hire because you're never successful. Hiring is  a long process. To hire a critical person in a start-up whether it's a technology,  critical technologist or a senior executive, can easily take six months are longer, and then  they take six months coming up to speed.

If you made a mistake, you lose  a year. They will have hired other crappy people during that time.

It's very, very  expensive. This is why you really need to watch new people. You need to really  evaluate how they're doing, and this is where I think board members and investors should  be much more about assisting a venture.

I never call myself a venture capitalist.

I  say a venture assistant. Even our tag line for our firm says venture assistant.

I  like to do all this, and spend all my time doing all this.

I never  go to VC functions.

I never go to financial conferences.

I just spend my time  with founders and people they are trying to higher. By the way, it's a lot  more fun, and you learn a lot more, and get excited about it. You should  over hire. Flip side, if you find somebody great, make up a title and hire  him. Two things, no great talent is worth getting away because you don't have a  slot. Make up a slot. They will pay for themselves. The flip side, with few  exceptions, and there are some, a great talent is never too expensive to hire.

I've  gone to all kinds of ridiculous things. We were trying to hire an exec today,  and I was arguing with another VC this morning.

I said, "His company offered him  this. They're about to go public. Why don't we guarantee him the first $15 million  out of this start-up. Give him a preference over the preferred stock.

I'll go to  any lengths for great talent. Nobody heard of putting of 15 million of preference for  an employee above the preferred stock that the investors' money.

I've done this more than  once. Couple of things around that, the flip side is plan for failure and evaluate  new people. One other thing, you can also when you hire somebody, and I want  to stop, try and assimilate them. People can fail because they're the wrong fit, but  people can also fail because you didn't assimilate them well.

If you have somebody really  experienced in a business, and you hired somebody from that business, they can advise you  on how to assimilate this person. You might think of what they're doing differently than  somebody who knows that person or that business. Getting advice on how to assimilate people  into your business because they are going to be different. They are the diversity you're  trying to be, and you don't want to be too uniform. Getting help in assimilating,  getting lots of advice in how to make them successful as opposed to reacting because  they're acting so differently, and doing things so differently, that's bad too. Then, of course,  if you make a mistake, you have to be quick. Your investors, good investors, can  help you do that. That to me is the principle value good investors bring. Anyway,  let's open it up to questions for a few minute.

Speaker 3: I have question. So, you talk about Elon Musk with the space rocket and Tesla,  and then why do you think why do you think one of them it requires  good domain expertise, and then one of them doesn't?
Vinod Khosla: Well, different questions. One, I think Stripe hired really awesome teams.

In fact, the Stripe  co-founder that is now running OpenAI. He hired somebody so strong even though he was  a college drop out, Patrick, he hired awesome people around him.

I don't think TheraNest  did this early. There's a culture thing we didn't talk about, and culture's very important.  I think good companies acknowledge their problems. Say, "What do we need to solve it?"  TheraNest early on tried to hide their problems. They didn't encourage discussion around their problems.  I think that was the difference.

I think Elizabeth has learned a lot.

I think  if she was to do another start-up, she'd do much, much better. Sometimes in trying  to show the outside world you're a great start-up, you tend to not acknowledge your  weaknesses. That's a danger.

In fact, most start-ups spend way more time on their assets,  not their liabilities. Your liabilities can kill you faster than your assets can make you  successful. You need to spend time because you're a cohesive group generally when you're starting  out, you tend to have group think, so you tend to lose sight of your  risks. You want to encourage that behavior of asking a lot of ... That's culture.  We won't go too much into culture today, but establishing the right values, why people  are here, what the mission is, what kind of culture. Then other people made the  point having good goodies in your lunch menu isn't culture. Allowing dogs in your workplace  isn't culture, though I love dogs. Culture is about fundamental values and how you behave  and what you encourage. The more people at every level in the organization can ask  questions, the more you will identify your risks sooner, have a more constructive culture, and  the more likely you will to increase success. Let me finish that by saying one  other thing. Sam, said something else that I really like. He said start-ups are a  pass fail game.

I think it puts everything I've been saying in context.

I like  to say start-ups are not about dilution they're about the probability of success. They're much  more distilled than you think.

If you can increase the probability of success by hiring  great people, by asking a lot of questions, by finding your risks early by having  people surface problems, you're going to increase your probability of success. Either your successful or  you're not, and so it's about probability. People worry way too much about dilution, and  not giving more equity to a co-founder, or new hire who may need to be  made a co-founder.

I'm seeing a lot of this in the AI start-ups now. They're  AI start-ups, but they don't hire the AI talent because the average AI person at  Google, machine learning person, is making the median income I think is like $750,000 cop.  What are you going to do to get that person? You can pretend you can  do without that, but you're fooling yourself. Sorry, there was a question there.

Speaker 4: You touched on this earlier, and you spend your Saturdays going through resumes. For early  stage, can you quickly go through like 30 seconds or a minute what you look  for if you're hiring let's say probably technical or like a early business dev person?
Vinod Khosla: What do I look for?
Speaker 4: Yeah.

Vinod Khosla: First, people who can think originally about their area. Whatever their area is.

Speaker 4: Specifically, how do you see that on LinkedIn.

If you were looking on LinkedIn-
Vinod Khosla: LinkedIn, it may be ... Sometimes if I ask somebody, "What interesting papers have you  read in your area of expertise?" If it's narrow diversity, tells me one thing.

If  it's broad diversity, it's one of my 100 questions.

I'll ask a direct question like  what books have you read.

It tells you how they think, and that's critical to  a start-up in addition to knowing encryption algorithms. Annu, tell me when to stop.

I'll  keep asking.

Anu Hariharan: Probably the last one.

Speaker 5: For an early stage start-up that's bootstrapping, do you see any value in leveraging technical  advisors or an advisory board?
Vinod Khosla: There is always value in leveraging technical advisors in advisory board. What's important is to  get their opinions, but not respect it too much. This is again this quandary, which  is hard. You want them to surface the issues, but you as the founder using  first principles. One, I say, "Do I believe this or not? Or, how much should  I weigh this versus some other things?" That's the critical part. That's the hard part.  That's what makes entrepreneurship hard.

It is a lot of fun, but it's really hard  too.

I have a great presentation.

I came up with the title in 1986, and  still on our website, the entrepreneurial rollercoaster where the highs are high and the lows  are low, and the lows are really low in every start-up.

Anu Hariharan: Yes, that's true. Thank you so much, Vinod, for taking the time.

Vinod Khosla: Thank you, everybody.
