# How to Raise Money, and How to Succeed Long-Term - Jess Lee, Aaron Harris, & Ali Rowghani

Aaron Harris: I am Aaron Harris, I'm one of the partners at Y-Combinator.

I've been working at  YC for a while and I've gotten to fund a lot of companies, and I've  gotten to see a lot of companies raise money, everything from seeds to As to  Bs to Cs, to weirdo in-between rounds. So I'm really looking forward to sharing some  of those lessons, but mostly I really want to learn and chat with my guest  over here, Jess Lee from Sequoia. Jess, do you want to introduce yourself?
Jess Lee: Sure.

I'm Jess. Back in 2004 I was sitting where you guys are, I think  I took databases in this room, but I studied computer science and then went to  Google where I was a PM for Google Maps, and then co-founded a company called  Polyvore and was CEO there. Then in the last six months, I am not at  Sequoia Capital as a partner.

Aaron Harris: So, Sequoia is a reasonably well-known venture capital list firm.

It's actually one of the  first firms in the Valley, one of the longest running, and probably the most successful.  What have you learned in just six months, I guess about the people coming in  the door? What distinguishes off the bat people who are succeeding or who can succeed  in fundraising? What do you want to see?
Jess Lee: Yeah, so part of what we look for at Sequoia is we're looking for really  daring founders who want to build really legendary companies. So at Sequoia we back folks  like at Apple, Google, Yahoo, Airbnb, DropBox, and Strype. So part of what we look  for is a founder who's special in some way, has some unique insight, and for  me in particular because for me, Polyvore was an eight and a half year journey  of crazy highs and crazy lows.

It's really hard, it's just right off the bat,  like the odds are against you, it's almost irrational to start a company, because the  odds are so bad. So you need to have a lot of grit. So that's  definitely something we look for. Then I think one of the other things is a  really clear understanding of the problem you're trying to solve, right, I think that's something  that really distinguishes people.

I think a lot of people spend time pitching the solution,  but they don't really explain the problem, and it should be so crisp and clear  what the problem is you're solving that the solution almost just floats from that. Then  the third thing we look for is ideally you're working in a really, really big  market where there's line of sight to like billions of dollars of market caps. So  those are some of the things that we look for.

Aaron Harris: All right, so for me that breaks down into like three different areas, right, there's  the qualities of the founder, right, in terms of the grit. Then there's something that  bridges quality in the problem which is what the problem the way to explain it,  and then the third thing is just how big that opportunity is. So let's take  the three of those. When I think about the first one, that's huge, right? This  concept of grit.

It's really hard to assess that.

Jess Lee: Yeah.

Aaron Harris: In someone.

I mean you see someone on the street, you don't know if they're  tough. They may tell you a little bit about their lives, maybe that tells you  they're tough.

Jess Lee: Yeah.

Aaron Harris: I know how we think about it. We look at people and we actually want  to see how founders interact, right, we see how founders talk to each other and  how they think about the idea that they're working on and what they've actually done  in the past, have they demonstrated fortitude and toughness? How do you judge it though?  You spend more time with the founders usually before investing. Are there tests that you  make them run? Did you drop them in the middle of a forest with a  knife and a ball of twine?
Jess Lee: No, nothing like that.

I think grit can come from a lot of different places,  right? Like it could come from you having, for example we often ask about the  inspiration for the company, right? Is it something that you're really passionate about that drives  you that you have to solve this problem, or is this something you just thought  would be a good business idea, but like getting through the roller coaster, there's got  to be something that gets you through each of those really difficult moments. So sometimes  it's because you just care about the problem so much, and there's an inspiring story  there, like you're solving a problem you have, your family had, something that shaped you  in your life, so that's one form of grit. Then there's like you said, there's  people who have demonstrated continued ability to like just run through walls and break down  problems and sometimes that shows up in previous work history, previous things that they've done.  Then there's also another form of grit, which is just I mean sometimes it shows  up in completely naïve optimism, and sometimes it's almost better to be a little naïve  and inexperienced about something, 'cause you don't know how hard it's going to be, you  just keeping going, you just very positive outlook, and sometimes it comes from like a  chip on your shoulder where you just like really need to prove yourself, like something's  driving you, you've been underestimated your whole life, and so you just keep going, you  have this desire to prove yourself, so those are some of the different forms that  grit can take.

Aaron Harris: But as a founder, how does a founder convince you that they have those things?  Do they tell you those stories?
Jess Lee: Yeah.

Aaron Harris: Okay.

Jess Lee: So we always try to dig in and try to find out what the inspiration  for the company is, so that often is telling. Then you just with your interactions  with someone you can kind of ask them about their background, what they did before.  Some people have been starting companies from an early age, some people have worked on  multiple businesses, like those are some small signs, but at the end of the day  a lot of it's also just about click with the investor that you're working with,  and whether they see themselves working, because you have to remember like great companies take,  I think on average it takes about eight years to exit, so when you and  your founder-
Aaron Harris: It's actually gone up.

Jess Lee: Okay.

Aaron Harris: Average time to IPO is now something like 11 years.

Jess Lee: Yeah.

I meant exit, so even just acquisition.

Aaron Harris: Right.

Jess Lee: But you're partnering with a person who you're going to be like ...

It's a  long term relationship you're getting into, especially once you start to get to your Series  A and B. So you want to find someone who you have good fit with.  Like it's almost like you're ...

It's someone you're going to be married to for  ten years, except you can't get divorced, because it's very hard to like you can't  kick your investors off your cap table very easily, so it's something to really important  to think about as you prioritize picking an investor. So you kind of have to  spend a little bit of that time I guess dating and getting to know each  other.

Aaron Harris: Yeah.  If that makes sense.

Aaron Harris: That's a super good point, this idea that you can't kick someone off your cap  table. People I think often cavalierly take money, because they say, "Oh look, I just  need some money, oh this person offered me money." We always get these questions from  founders saying, "Oh, this random person just offered me ten, 50, 100, 200,000 dollars." Like  people do crazy things on fast meetings. One of the hardest things to do at  seed, at A, at B, is decide who it is that you're going to take  money from. Now I'd say, if you get to decide, you're actually in a pretty  good situation, because the first rule is get the money you need to run your  business. Now if there are more people offering you money than you theoretically have room  for, then you start to get choosy. How do you build a competitive dynamic in  a round? How do you get people interested? Now you're all hopefully starting small companies  that are going to be startups that are going to get big, so one day  you're going to want to go out and convince a whole bunch of people you're  going to be the next Google. So how do you build a competitive dynamic in  that fundraising?
Jess Lee: So I think first of all, you can't go into fundraising as like a casual  side thing that you do 20 percent.

It's actually better to just be really dedicated  to it, and just like all right, I know it sucks because I have to  step away from running my business, but I'm going to go all in and just  work on this process, and you kind of think about it as a process and  time it so you have conversations at the right time.

I think you want to  prioritize like the people that you talk to based on how much you want to  work with them, times sort of maybe the likelihood that you might be able to  and just work your way through. But you can also just kind of tell I  think when you have conversations with investors, like this is someone who I can imagine  working with for the next ten years, this is someone who I cannot. So you'll  start to feel that click, but really it's all about timing it together and almost  running almost like you're trying to run a competitive process, right? You have to I  think be subtle about letting people know and trying to set timelines and milestones, like  I'm hoping to get this done by this date.

I think being clear about your  expectations helps a lot, setting that timeline and saying, "I'm going into second conversations," like  a few of them this week, and then just keeping everyone informed of the timeline  so that you create as much as possible that competitive situation.

Aaron Harris: I think that turning this into a process, turning fundraising into a process is something  a lot of people ignore, because they want to believe the stories of, "Oh, you  know, I just I happened to pitch this person, we hit it off, and all  of a sudden they gave me this money and it was amazing." But the way  to do this is actually build a spreadsheet.

It seems crazy, but put every single  person you want to talk to in that spreadsheet, and note when you reached out  to them, what their response was. When you met with them, what the result of  the conversation was. Probability weight those conversations, just by how much they're likely to give  you and the likelihood that they're going to give you that money. Then you can  start to decide who you want to spend time on. Now this changes between the  seed and the A in terms of the time that you expect. So if you're  talking to angels, one or two meetings, coffees, right? You need to have like some  sort of, well actually we'll talk about deck in a second. You don't need that  much material for pitching an angel.

If you're going an pitching Series A funds like  Sequoia, you have to have a lot more together, right? You have to be ready  for longer conversations that are more in depth, right?
Jess Lee: I will say though I think the line between seed and A is kind of  blurring, has been shifting over the years. So Polyvore raised our Series A in 2007,  and that was a two and a half million dollar round or 2.6 I think.  Now that seems more like a seed. So I think it can bleed.

I think  when you're doing pre-seed it's definitely more the angels. But there are plenty of micro-VC's  as well as firms like Sequoia that participate at the seed stage so just, you  know, you have to be more buttoned up like the more, like I think the  larger the fund size, but it is interesting, I've definitely noticed a huge shift in  the size of rounds getting bigger and bigger and then they're starting to be called  A's later, what used to be a B is now an A.

Aaron Harris: Right, the price at which they're done is more equivalent, I mean seeds are now  being done at prices that are significantly higher than A's were done even three years  ago. Now that's not always the case, right that happens to be the case in  the hot house of Silicon Valley, especially if you're doing something like Y-C, prices will  be higher than they might be otherwise, or if you're a well-known founder or things  like that. But I think people who get hung up on the amount of money  you're raising or the price at which you raise are doing a disservice to the  company.

Jess Lee: Yeah.

Aaron Harris: We talked about this the other day.

Jess Lee: Yeah.

Aaron Harris: That like people come in and like, "Oh, I have to raise five million at  15 for my seed," why? I mean you're actually probably hurting the chances of your  company by raising too much money too fast, because you're setting the hurdles for your  company way too high.

Jess Lee: Yeah, you're not in some competition to try to have the biggest valuation, right, you  need to, independent of everyone else in the market and all your competitors, like you  need to think about what is the business plan that you have, what are the  milestones you need to achieve, kind of at, and then what's maybe 12 to 18  months of runway, or what's the money you could use to accelerate that plan, right?  Think about it that way, and then try to minimize dilution, right. But at the  end of the day, like if you're going to be worth billions of dollars, or  hundreds of millions of dollars, though sometimes people overoptimize on valuation.

If you think about  all the things you could be thinking about, like the valuation in the terms, the  person that you're working with, the individual partner, and then maybe the reputation or the  firm that you work with, and the brand, and within the firm I think the  two things to look at are the firm's network, as well as the community of  founders that you step into, right? Because as much as like getting help from your  peers who are other founders and other CEO's, and rubbing shoulders with like really amazing  founders who help you out but then also elevate your game, like that's really really  important. That's really something to look for.

Aaron Harris: Yeah, I think that the research ahead of time on whoever you're talking to is  ...

Jess Lee: That helps, too.

Aaron Harris: People don't do it. People walk into meetings cold or people start talking to investors  or perspective investors knowing nothing about what they want, what they've invested before, what their  interests are, and it's amazing how important those personal connections are, and that knowledge. People  really do treat well when you know something about them, when you don't expect them  to just bring everything to you.

Jess Lee: Yeah.

Aaron Harris: Remember, it's a two way street, right, it's a partnership like you said.

Jess Lee: Right.

I mean I think the same goes in the other direction, right, like if  you walk in and your investor's like what's your name again, and like what do  you do, and like has not prepared at all, like that's also kind of a  bad sign, so ...

Aaron Harris: That's a terrible sign.

Jess Lee: It's a two way street, like your interview, you're evaluating your investors just as much  as they're evaluating you. You want someone who's going to be hard working who you  feel comfortable with, who can be your first phone call, right? Like startups like I  said, it's just like roller coaster, epic highs, epic lows, like in your epic lows,  like you want someone who's going to be a shock absorber, and help you through  that, not hit the panic button and be like ah, let's all run around like  chickens with our heads cut off and panic and then make you make it worse  for you, make it worse for your team. You want someone who has seen downs  before, knows what to do and can help you out of them, and then also  when you're at your epic high, you don't want someone who's just like ra-ra, cheerleader,  'cause there's always something around the corner that could tank you. So you want someone  who's sort of a sparring partner, right, who like says, like have you thought about  this, someone who pushes you and challenges you to go even greater. So that's I  mean that's certainly part of our philosophy as board members at Sequoia.

Aaron Harris: You know, one of the hardest things to do for investors, actually, is to give  good feedback when things are going well that isn't about, "Oh my God, you're going  to kill it, it's going to be the best," 'cause I'll tell you, as a  founder, you want to hear the best story of yourself. Right, you believe the best  story of yourself. Right, you believe the best story of your future, and it feels  so good when an investor, this fancy investor comes in and says, "Ah, you're totally  right, you are going to conquer the world." That advice is super easy to listen  to, 'cause it's just a confirmation bias thing, right? On the other hand, you don't  want an investor who comes in and just beats you up over everything you do.

Jess Lee: Yeah.

Aaron Harris: Finding that medium in the relationship, and finding a relationship where both sides can have  that conversation is huge. When I, so Sequoia was one of my investors, and Brian  Schrier and I used to do this, and he was super supportive about the good  things, and on the things that needed fixing, he didn't yell at me, but he  pointed them out logically, it's like, oh, that's actually a good point. That's why he  was a valuable investor.

I think a lot of investors refuse to do that, 'cause  they just want to be best friends.

Jess Lee: Mm-hmm (affirmative), yeah, that's not good.

Aaron Harris: I think investors want to be your best friend, not good.

Jess Lee: That's not an optimal model, yeah.

I mean it can be kind of tempting, but  I think that ultimately isn't good in the long run for you or for your  company.

I think the other model that's not great is the person who's totally uninvolved,  you know, like you want your investors to work hard for you, too, right? So  that's another sort of bad model. What's another not so- oh, the one who's too  involved, who wants to like tell you exactly where your UI and your buttons need  to go, and like sometimes things like, "Well my sister or my daughter uses your  product, and said blah, blah, blah, blah, blah." Sometimes that feedback can be sent in  a constructive way, but if it's, you know, I've got this one data point for  you, I don't know anything about your product, and I think you should do this,  and being very prescriptive about it, that's not good either.

Aaron Harris: Yeah, so investors need to know what their relationship to the company is. Here's a  maybe counterintuitive tip: try not to take office space in your investor's offices for a  long time. This is this thing that's like really tempting, because hey, there's some free  office space, and hey, there's this perk that you get with it or come work  in our accelerator or incubator. You don't want your investor over your shoulder all the  time.

It really inhibits culture, and crazy things. Right because you know that your investor  is going to come look at your spreadsheet or look at your product, you're not  going to try the super weird, crazy idea that you had, because it needs a  little room to grow at the .

Jess Lee: That's interesting.

I guess I think if it's going to be an investor who comes  over and like stands over your computer and like says, like, "What's in that spreadsheet?"  Definitely, definitely not. But I think there are models where you can get office space  and not have that relationship, 'cause many times, investors are like running around too also  just talking to a lot of companies, so they might not be there. The other  thing is, if you've got another company in the same space with you, that can  be really awesome, right? Because then you've got a peer group, maybe ideally they're not  super competitive, but you get that founder-to-founder support and that camaraderie, and I think that's  a good reason to sometimes take investor office space.

Aaron Harris: Yeah, I think yeah, there are two sides to that one.

Jess Lee: Yeah, yeah.

Aaron Harris: One of the things you said really jumped out at me, because it's something that  we work on a lot with our founders, is this idea of being able to  clearly communicate the problem and what your solution is. Why is that valuable?
Jess Lee: So you have to remember that you know your problem cold, right? Like whatever space  you're in, the problem you're solving, you've spent like hours and hours thinking about it,  and you're talking to someone who may not know anything about your space.

In fact,  I experience this a lot at Polyvore, because so Polyvore is a fashion and shopping  app targeted at women. 94 percent of investors are male, so I couldn't rely on  you know, when I pitched an app saying, "Imagine an app where you could buy  dresses all day," you know, 94 percent of investors would go why would I want  that, that sounds terrible, I hate shopping! So it just didn't work, so you had  to come up with a way to communicate that really clearly. So sometimes it's an  analogy, sometimes it's you know, you've drawn a persona, this is your user, this is  their problem, use a real customer for example. For me what we did is for  Polyvore, we were trying to explain an analogy. So what we did is we took  a stack of fashion magazines, like the Vogue September issue, like this thick. All the  September issues, we took them, we threw them on the table and we said, "This  stack of magazines is like $300 million of revenue in one issue, right? Now imagine  that on the Internet." And people were like, "Oh, I get that." So it's sort  of an analogy, and then we showed graphs, you know, and so you have to  think about your audience, right? If it's a space that they won't understand, you really  have to take more time to explain the problem you're solving, the customer you're solving  for, and then from there you can explain your solution.

I've seen a lot of  people just jump directly to the solution, I'm like wait, what are you solving for?  I don't understand how fish farming works. Why would I know, wait what? So I  mean you just have to just know your audience.

Aaron Harris: Yeah, that communication thing, I'm guessing you've all been working on this with your TA's  and group leaders in terms of encapsulating what you do in a sentence if possible,  and it seems a little esoteric, because oh, I'm building this big complex thing, why  should I have to boil it down? What it is is it's really just this  exercise in condensing and clarifying thought. What we've found what we've seen again and again  is the best founders can communicate clearly, and can adjust their explanation for whoever they're  talking to such that it is meaningful. This changes, right, this is different for the  engineer that you're pitching and the investor you're pitching and the customer that you're pitching,  and telling your parents what you do so they get off your case about the  fact that you're not going to work at Google, but working on a crazy startup.  Like you have to be able to contextualize for people. But that clarity of thought  in the end is a real defining factor when you're going in and pitching.

I  would also say it's one of the things that tells you that you're ready to  go raise money. Right, and I think this is really tricky. When do I know  that my idea that I've been working on, this project that I've been playing with  on the side is good enough to go raise money.

I think one of the  things that you can actually describe it and why it's valuable succinctly, and it doesn't  take lots of jargon and a whiteboard to explain all the different dynamics.

Jess Lee: Yeah, I think it also says something about a skill that's actually really important in  being a founder, which is, can you take a big, hairy complex problem and then  break it down into simpler problems. Like just how you'd like take a program, you're  writing a program, and you decompose into different functions, like if you can take something  big and break it down into problems and solve those, then that's kind of what  you have to do with your company, right, like whatever problem you're trying to solve  is probably quite large, very complicated, all these moving pieces, can you figure out how  to break them into smaller things and then solve them individually, and that skill is  just being able to do it with your pitch deck and being able to explain  this thing you're working on or have been working on for a few years, and  condense that down, like that is actually very important.

It's like a tell of an  important skill for building a startup.

Aaron Harris: I think for the last topic, we'll dig into, and honestly fundraising could take up  days of conversation in terms of case studies and role playing how you do it,  and unfortunately we can't do that now. But I think the next point for all  of you as you build your companies is really figuring out when you're ready to  talk to investors.

I mentioned it briefly for a second, but this is a really  curious thing to figure out. So, how do you know that you're ready to raise  a round of financing? How do you know that you're ready to take someone's money?
Jess Lee: So I think you might be better to talk about that one at the  friends and family stage, and that very early stage.

I mean I think you don't  want to, like when you're, I think a startup is, like I said, it's hard  right? It's not something you just kind of, it's not as glamorous as one might  think. There's a lot of like grunt work that goes into it, so I think  having a commitment to an idea that you can imagine doing for quite a long  time, like we said, it takes many, many years for a startup to become successful.  I think to me, that's one of the tipping points and to being able to  say to your friends and family, "Hey mom, can I have $10,000?" To be able  to know that you might not, actually in all likelihood you won't give that back  to her, right, so there's got to be enough of a personal commitment, so that's  how I would describe the very first milestone. Maybe you have more thoughts on that  one.

Aaron Harris: I think that's exactly right, it's kind of a fuzzy decision point, but it's just  this thing in your head where at some point the balance of evidence says, I  want to work on this for real, full time.

I'm okay losing mom's or grandma's  or my brother's ten grand or 50 grand. Like that's probably 98 percent chance that's  just going to go poof.

If you're okay with that, from like a thought-through perspective  and not just, I mean some people are cavalier with their friends' and family's money,  but if you're okay with that, because you really want to commit to something, I  think that's the time to go do it.

Jess Lee: Yeah.

Aaron Harris: Then as your company grows, there become these other things, there are certain milestones and  metrics, you know, if you're building a SAS business, and you get to a million  dollars in ARR and you're growing at something like 20 percent to 30 percent a  month, you might be ready for a Series A, like all this stuff, those are  sometimes right in terms of the next round of financing, but even those are all  like fuzzy lines. You can never look at someone else's experience fundraising and saying ah,  that perfectly ports over to me. So I think it actually plays out forward at  every point in time, there is a balance of evidence that makes you decide that  you are ready. Or that makes someone else decide that you're ready and they come  and hand you a check.

I think that's what Sequoia, one of the things Sequoia  does really well is they'll lean in on a deal before the founder even realizes  that they're necessarily ready. Just be like, we think you're amazing and ready, we want  to fund you.

Jess Lee: Isn't that what happened to you?
Aaron Harris: It's what happened to us at our seed round, and it's something that's happened to  friends of mine who have been funded later by Sequoia. So anyway, if you are,  get to the point where you're ready to raise money, or have other questions about  it, just email Jess, I think it's jlee@ ...

Jess Lee: Jess@SequoiaCap.com.

Aaron Harris: Jess@SequoiaCap.com.

I think we've got time for a few questions in the room. You can  obviously always email me or email Y-C.

I'm Aaron, A-A-R-O-N @Ycombinator.com. Yeah, this takes up  a lot of time, and a lot of thought, and unfortunately it actually, fundraising takes  up a lot more time and thought than it should because it seems like something  that should be systematic, but is actually chaos, which really confuses people, especially people who  are logically brained. Yeah?
Speaker 3: What should the fundraising strategy be? Should it be like 50 companies and approach all  50 of them at the same time, or should we do it over a month  or two? What's the right approach?
Aaron Harris: In terms of running a process?
Speaker 3: Of running the process, yeah.

Speaker 4: Can you repeat the question?
Aaron Harris: Yeah, so the question was what's the right way to run a process in terms  of reaching out to firms or individuals? If you have a list of 50, do  you do it sequentially or in parallel, basically.

I would say do it in parallel.  Like, everyone to the starting gate at the same time, because one of the things  you want to create the competitive dynamic, and the best way to create a competitive  dynamic is to have a lot of people trying to do the same thing at  once. Right, so you want a narrow gate with a lot of people trying to  push through it. The only situation in which that isn't true, if you have like  a super friendly investor who you know really well, and you think you can get  them to jump the gun, and you can like sort of threaten them, and say  like, "Ah, you know, I'm about to go out and talk to a lot of  people, but I'd rather not spend the effort building a deck," and if you can  trigger them to jump in, it works sometimes if you're good enough at playing it,  but that's really hard. That's like next-level stuff. Yeah, in the back.

Speaker 5: The question, so you mentioned that angel investors are a shorter time frame and sort  of the Series A and Series B investors are a longer time frame. On the  topic of process, you know, if you were going after Series A, or your angel,  like how many more meetings or what kind of time frame do you think it  takes from when you decide to start that process to when you might expect to  have a result?
Aaron Harris: Yeah, so let me repeat the question then you take it. So the question is  what is the he timeline, and what is the process for different stages of investing  from the investor's perspective?
Jess Lee: I would say I wouldn't think about it just as angel versus firm.

I would  think maybe a little buit about how much you're trying to raise. Like if you're  trying to raise a $250,000 or $750,000 round, and you're mostly talking to individuals and  angels, then like he said it can often be just a conversation. A slide deck  helps but doesn't always have to happen. When you're getting to seed, so maybe like  anywhere from, I don't know, one to two and a half, then you can expect  both from like the micro-VC's as well as like the sand hill road investors. Probably  one or two meetings, right, and that can happen within a week, like for us  it could definitely be within a week. Or just two meetings.

I don't know about  you guys. Well I mean your process is completely different now. Then when you get  to an A, then you might probably what will happen with a firm is you  might have one meeting with the first person, a second meeting with multiple partners, and  then the full partner meeting, right? Not every firm requires unanimous, not every firm requires  that everyone sees it, but that also tells you a little bit about how that  firm is run, is it more of a team sport of an individual sport kind  of firm? So that's what I would say would be the cadence, and then it's  really just about scheduling, like can you get those three meetings done in a week,  two weeks? Great firms will be able to move fast, though.

Aaron Harris: Yeah, and you will be amazed at how far timelines can compress in a hot  deal, and how long they can stretch out in a cold one. One of the  really interesting things is, if you think about the incentive dynamic for an investor, it  is in their best interest to wait as long as possible before making a decision  if they can, because they just gather more and more evidence. So but as a  founder, that's bad for you. So you have to juggle those things. One more? One  more. Any other questions? Awesome, you all know how to fundraise. That's great. Thank you  so much.

Jess Lee: Thanks, guys.

Ali Rowghani: All right, I think I'm the last person between now and lunch and now and  maybe this summer, right? Summer exams. So I'll try to be quick. My name is  Ari Reggani. The subject of my talk is how to succeed long term, and I've  been amazed, I was watching some of the videos that you guys saw and reading  up on some of the notes. You guys have heard from some amazing people. Emmitt  Sheer and Michael Sybol and Erin Levy, et cetera, talking about how to build a  great product, and Adam DeAngelo and Stuart Butterfield about how to come up with ideas  and measure success, Peter Reinhardt about product market fit, Benod Cosla about hiring and building  teams, it's an incredible list of people, and now from Jess and Aaron about the  tactics of fundraising.

I'm here to talk about a topic that's perhaps more slippery and  abstract than any of the topics you guys have heard about so far. That topic  is leadership.

In particular, I wanted to answer the following question: what do you have  to do to be a great leader? Hopefully it goes without saying that learning to  be a great leader is pretty fundamental to long term success, and the reason's pretty  simple.

If you're going to succeed in building a really successful startup, there's really no  way around having to hire a lot of people and motivating and aligning them and  getting to achieve something much bigger than you could ever achieve on your own. So  there's really kind of no way around learning how to be a great leader if  you want to succeed. For me, the question really starts, the most important initial question  to ask is the following: when you study leaders, are great leaders largely similar to  one another, or are they really different? I remember when I was sitting at Stanford,  I was an undergrad and a business school student here, and I remember sitting in  business school, and if you'd asked me that question, I would have said pretty clearly  that I think there's kind of a single personality trait. Like, leaders are all pretty  much the same. Either you have those genes or that sort of leadership mojo or  if you didn't, then you better kind of work on changing your personality traits around  so you could exhibit some of those leadership personality traits so you could be a  leader. This question for me was largely an academic one, until after business school I  started working at Pixar, the animation studio, and had the extreme good fortune of working  with four people, four leaders that I consider extraordinary, and these four people were Steve  Jobs, who was our CEO, Ed Catmull who was Pixar's founder, and was the president  of Pixar when I joined, John Lassiter, who was Pixar's chief creative officer, and Bob  Eiger who is the CEO of Disney who acquired Pixar in 2006. The surprising thing  for me about working with these leaders was that they couldn't have been more different  in terms of their personality, their temperament, their style, and really just the way they  went about doing their jobs.

I want to tell you a little bit about each  one of them with the aid of a picture. That's John Lassiter. John was and  is an extroverted artist. He studied cartoons, he went to animation school, he's boisterous and  fun loving, he loves toys, and he has a massive toy collection, you can see  part of that behind him. He's emotional, he's energetic, you could always read how he  felt on his face, he loves wine and good food, he had dozens of hobbies  outside of work. He didn't manage his time particularly well, and was always over committed,  and he always showed people a lot of love, the people around him. He gave  everyone hugs, and he wore Hawaiian shirts every day. Ed Catmull on the other hand,  was an introverted scientist. He had a PhD. He studied computer graphics at University of  Utah and graduated in 1974 with a dream to one day make an animated film  on a computer. He was quiet, thoughtful, exceptionally calm, never reactive, he was hard to  read and decipher, he was really health conscious. He kind of lived his life the  right way. He didn't drink, he didn't smoke, he ate well, and his primary hobby  outside of work believe it or not, was to go on week long silent meditation  retreats. You guys all know about Steve. He was a college dropout. He'd never really  worked for anyone in his life. He was a magnetic presence in meetings, walking around.  He was intense, he was impatient, he was extraordinarily quick on his feet, he was  not really prone to bonding with people or showing love or affection. Certainly I never  saw him give anyone a hug at work. He could say really pointed things, he  was aggressive, he was always in a hurry, and he was in a hurry to  get to the answer. He had this energy about him, and a clarity of thought  and communication that was really remarkable. Then finally Bob Eiger. Bob was the CEO of  Disney. He had, unlike Steve, spent more than 30 years at the same company before  he eventually became the CEO. He was diplomatic, he was genteel, he was patient, wise,  calm, he had gravitas. He exuded a trustworthiness and honor that you wanted to be  around and follow, and he had really, really high emotional intelligence. Here's a picture of  the four of them on the day we announced Disney's acquisition of Pixar. When I  look at this picture, I think to myself, these four guys worked extremely well together,  and if they'd met each other in high school or in college, there's no way  they would have ever been friends. You had an artist and a scientist, a hippie  and an athlete, and they just would not have run in the same circles. So  working with these guys taught me a lot, and it kind of led me to  my personal first insight about leadership, which is that there's no single personality type for  great leaders. There's really no single model. This is actually really great news if you  think about it, because it means that people of varying personality types can all strive  to be great leaders. There's not a gene set or a certain personality type that  allows you to be a great leader or disqualifies you from being a leader. But  the other implication of this insight is that in your quest to become a leader  of your startup, or even a bigger aspiration for leadership, you have to be yourself.  You have to be authentic. You can't try to be someone else or copy someone  else's personality or style and hope to be a great leader. You can't try to  be like Steve Jobs. The reason for that is that as humans, we're actually really  highly evolved at detecting inauthenticity in other people. We don't follow people we find to  be inauthentic. So this kind of leads to my second isnight that I wanted to  share, which is despite the variability in personalities, despite the fact that really all personality  types can be great leaders, all great leaders have to do three things exceptionally well.  The first is that great leaders think and communicate clearly. As a leader, you have  to paint a compelling vision for the future that other people can understand and follow.  This is the case if you're a three person startup and you're trying to motivate  your co-founders or early employees, and it's even more the case when you're a 100-person  company, a 1000-person company, and so on. The key thing about communication as a leaders  it that simplicity of communication is vital.

I remember marveling at Steve Jobs' ability at  Pixar to take the most complicated problem we were discussing, and be able to simplify  it to its core essence, break something complicated apart into what really mattered, and how  we should approach something first, second, third.

It was like we were all sitting in  darkness, and there was one guy who had a lantern, and that was Steve. Because  of that because he had clarity and could explain something in a way that you  could understand and sounded right, you would follow him. The other example I love on  simplicity is an example from Jeff Bezos of Amazon. He once said that in Amazon's  retail business, which now encompasses almost every category, if not every category of products on  earth, he said only three things mattered. First, low prices. Second, broad selection, and third,  fast delivery. These three things were the only things that consumers cared about, and they  would always care about those three things, so anything that an Amazon employee would do  to improve Amazon's performance in those three areas, was aligned with Amazon's strategy. That simplicity  has been there, the bedrock of Amazon's retial strategy from the beginning. That's great communication.  Now obviously, Bezos and Jobs set a pretty high bar, and I'm not here to  try to teach you to be any of those guys. But I can tell you  that if you want to improve as a communicator, the first thing you should do  is to step back and give yourself more time to think. Even Steve Jobs used  to tell us that when he was at his best, running both Apple and Pixar,  half of his time, half of his schedule was unscheduled, meaning it wasn't filled with  meetings with other people. He created time in his calendar to be able to think.  That's going to be really hard when you guys start your startups.

It's going to  be frenetic, you're going to be pulled in a million directions, and it's going to  be very, very difficult to actually devote time to just thinking.

I don't mean answering  email.

I mean time to think and plan ahead. Plan your communication. What are you  going to say? How are you going to explain what you think in a clear  way? So my best advice on this is force yourself to take as little as  an hour a day, or an hour every other day at the beginning, and try  to grow that amount of time on your calendar that you're devoted just to thinking.  Go for a walk. Sit at your desk. Whatever you do that helps you get  clarity, take that time. You can get better at communication. Some people have natural gifts,  but anyone with practice and with giving themselves time to think can get better, and  the core insight here is that clarity of thought always proceeds clarity of language. Second  thing all great leaders do is they show great judgment about people. So you heard  Benod Cosla a few weeks ago say that the first ten people you hire into  your startup are absolutely critical, and he's right. When you grow your startup, you have  to have great judgment, not only about the people you hire into sort of individual  contributor roles, but even more so, the people to whom you decide to give authority  and power. The people you decide to promote, and to make managers, and to make  into leaders.

If you show bad judgment there, if you pick the wrong people, if  you bring the wrong people into your company, you can never grow into a great  leader. Like communication, you can actually improve and develop your intuition about people. Practice and  experience again help here. So as you guys start your companies, many of you will  likely be hiring people for the first time, and so here's my advice: don't rush  it. Take the time to get to know the people you're hiring.

Ideally, start with  co-founders and early employees who you already know.

It's important to be aligned from a  values perspective.

It's not just can this person code, or can this person get a  job accomplished, you want to try to hire people of the long term. Spend time  to get to know them. You know, it's not unusual for people at larger startups  are hiring their first members of leadership, that they spent ten, 20, 30 hours with  the person before they decide to hire them. So spending time to get to know  someone is very, very important, and trying to bond with them on values, like what  do they really care about? Are you guys aligned, do you think you can get  along well in the long term? Evaluate that as well as their competence. The second  thing that's very important in developing your intuition is try to meet people who are  absolutely great at what they do, even if you can't hire them, in order to  develop your own understanding of what great is. Again, I could give you lots of  examples of founders who spent a lot of time doing this. But the more people  you meet, the more great people you meet, you fine tune your ability to detect  those characteristics in other people. Finally, a lot of hires don't work out, no matter  how well you do it. You're going to have to change people out, you're going  to have to ask people to leave, make sure you do that quickly. Make sure  you're courageous about it, and make sure that you reflect on the lessons learned every  time someone doesn't work out, and also every time someone works out. Make sure you're  reflective about your own process and how you've decided to bring people into the company,  and who you decide to promote into more bigger leadership roles. Last insight, great leaders  have exceptional personal integrity and commitment.

Integrity means standing for something that's important, bigger than  yourself.

It means having a mission to accomplish that is much greater than your own  personal wealth or fame.

It means avoiding behavior that would erode trust in all of  us, things like favoritism or conflicts of interest or using inappropriate language, or having inappropriate  work relationships. They key test for me is if you consider if all of your  communications, all of your emails, all of your verbal communications that you have with those  around you, if they were all transparent to everyone, wold you be embarrassed by anything  you've done or said? Really you should try to hold yourself to that bar. Commitment  means making your work, making your startup into a life mission in a way that  inspires other people.

It means giving it your all. That's inspiring, when people see others,  when people see leaders motivated by a big purpose and giving it their all to  accomplish that purpose, it's motivating in and of itself. When you think of the opposite,  when you see someone who is motivated by selfish ends, who si cutting corners, who  is slacking off, who is showing ethical weakness, those are not people you want to  follow. So if you want to be a great leader, it's really important to hold  yourself to this bar. So I wanted to leave you guys with the last insight  I have and a piece of parting advice. Ultimately, if you want to measure a  great leader by one thing, I think the most important success metric for a leader  is trust. Trust is a squishy concept, and in the way I'm using it, I  mean it almost in a 360 degree sense. The job of every leader is to  build trust.

Is to build trust in employees, in investors, in customers, in users, and  building trust is both an art and a science. The science part of it's fairly  easy.

It means when there's an empirical question to answer, when you have to think  through what is the technology we should build, or the product direction we should go  in or what sort of partnership we should strike in the marketplace, like you've got  to be right about those things a lot, right? It's a question of competence.

It's  also a question of competence when it comes to your people judgment. Are you good  at people choices you make, both hiring and promotion? The art of trust is more  difficult.

It's about showing empathy, having good timing, choosing the right words, dealing with different  people in the right ways, and it's about the integrity and commitment that I mentioned,  striving for something bigger than yourself, rather than being selfish or self-centered. When you see  a leader who has incredible trust, think about in your personal life, the people you  follow in your life, whether it's your friends or family members, et cetera, think about  who you have the deepest level of trust for in your life, maybe outside of  your parents.

It's likely that those same people are people you would listen to and  follow, because trust is such a strong bond. So here's my parting advice: at every  step as you guys move forward, build your startups, may succeed, it may fail, you'll  try it again, et cetera, you're going to have hard times, and hopefully good times.  Always try to optimize for trust. You're going to have a lot of hard decisions  to make, if you scale a startup, you're going to have to fire people, you're  going to have to admit mistakes to your employees and to your customers, you're going  to have to say no to people because you disagree with their ideas. Try to  view every challenge you guys face as leaders as an opportunity to increase the trust  that people have in you. Always as you're evaluating one course of action versus another,  my best advice is to ask yourself, which path will generate more trust in you  as a leader, and always try to choose that path. Thank you very much, and  I'm happy to take questions. Yes?
Speaker 7: Did Steve ever mention where he learned how to communicate so clearly? Or is it  just a natural talent?
Ali Rowghani: Steve as you guys know, started off very early as and entrepreneur, and there is  a great interview of him if you guys haven't watched it with Steve Jobs and  Bill Gates together, and one of the things that Steve talks about, he said one  of the things that Bill and I have in common is we were always very  early on the youngest people in the room, and how hard that was, and sort  of what a trial by fire that was to try to, as the youngest person  in the room, convince other people that you're right. So I think in his case,  he had years and years of practice before I ever met him.

I don't know  if he had any particular techniques, I mean I'm sure a lot of these gifts  came naturally, but practice definitely helps, and being around people with self awareness to realize  that they've made a mistake. Should we take one more? Yes.

Speaker 9: Did you see a different driver behind those four people's motivations?
Ali Rowghani: Oh yeah, for sure.

Speaker 9: what were those?
Ali Rowghani: Well it's hard for me to speculate. Well I'll just talk about John and Ed,  because I know them the best. John was motivated I think first and foremost by  making great films that brought families together, and would last forever. He used to say  that what other film other than Snow White can anyone name that was made in  1937? I hope I got the year right. But it was in the '30s. He  said if we do our jobs well, these films will live forever. He was also  motivated frankly by just like having fun doing what he did. That guy really squeezed  all the joy you could out of life, and I think those are probably his,  from my observation, some of his biggest motivators.

In Ed's case, I think Ed is  a great learner and a thinker.

I think what motivated him was trying to create  an organization that could repeatedly be successful, repeatedly produce great films, and he kind of  became an organizational thinker. He of course also wanted to make great films, and he  was also a technologist, so he cared a lot about the software we were building.  But I think fundamentally he wanted to try to figure out how to make Pixar  almost impossible, to continue its almost impossible streak of creative success, build an organization that's  able to be repeatedly successful and understand why and how that was. But yeah, the  motivations did differ.

I think there was definitely some shared values, some shared aspirations, but  each of them had a different specific motivator. Yeah?
Speaker 10: You mentioned that if you looked at the picture, if they were in high school  they most likely wouldn't hang out together, so we're kind of like in the earlier  stage of things, so it's almost like high school, and in the future they wound  up together, they're on their own get together, how can you tell 'em like balance  getting people of diverse backgrounds like that together?
Ali Rowghani: Well I would say you shouldn't do that when you're an early startup. You should  hire people that can first of all that you're connected with and you can work  with well and you think you can get the job done. The
